# BIOAuthMedicare

BIOAuthMedicare is a Python package which implements a secure authentication protocol for multi-server based e-healthcare using a fuzzy commitment scheme.
                                               

## Data 

We have used 2000 of pairs 8-bit gray scale images of fingerprints from the NIST Special Database 4 as the test data.


## Preprocessing 

Fingerprints are sorted in respective folders. Features are extracted using 'mindtct' minutiae detector of NIST Biometric Imaging Software which automatically locates and records ridge ending and bifurcations in a fingerprint image. This system also includes minutiae quality assessment based on local image conditions. 
We only use the xy-theta (.xyt) feature extracted by 'mindtct'. The .xyt file file has one space delimited line per minutiae containing its x and y coordinate, direction angle theta, and the minutiae quality. 
The following bash script implemented in 'generate.sh' is used to extract minutiae data to each folder

To run on own system, set MINDTCT_BIN_PATH to path of 'mindtct' binary in 'scripts/generate.sh' and run following command from project home.

```bash
chmod x+ scripts/generate.sh
scripts/generate.sh
```


## Running Batch

The following script implemented in 'batch.py' registers all users using the first instance of their fingerprint data and generates and stores a smartcard along with the biometric minutiae in UserData folder. The subfolder for each user has the format **{uid}\_{timestamp}** and stored use user biometric data and smartcard.
User uid is set as the user index i (starting at 1) padded with leading 0's. User password is set to **samplePassword{uid}**.

Once all users are registered, the script then logs in each user sequentially. This has been used to perform CPU performance and memory analysis of the authentication protocol.

```bash
python3 batch.py
```


## Clearing all data 

Run the following command to clear all initialization as well and registration data. 

```bash
chmod x+ scripts/clean_data.sh
scripts/clean_data.sh
```

Alternatively pass -r and/or -i options to the script to delete only registration and/or initialization data.

```
Initialization data : Data generated by mindtct
Registration data   : User data generated during batch registration
```


## Contributing
Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.
